Valuable content is dead. I know. I
know. For years, you've been told, "Make
your content more valuable. If your
content is more valuable, you will
grow." And that's wrong. Or maybe I
should say, the interpretation or the
execution of valuable content is what
you're doing wrong. Because yes, your
content should still be valuable. I'm
not encouraging you to post AI slop and
brain rot content. But what I think so
many people have been getting wrong over
the last 10 years is that valuable
content has come to mean educational
content. And ultimately, it's the
educational content which is falling
flat, flopping, and causing you to not
grow. And so in today's episode, I'm
going to share with you the six things
that you can do, things that are
working, and things that you can
actually do to educate your audience
while entertaining them in the process.
And ultimately, regardless of what niche
you're in, I think the shift that needs
to take place is instead of focusing on
educational content, we should be
focusing on entertaining content. And
again, that doesn't just mean that it
has to be superficial content. It
doesn't just have to be vapid content,
humorous content. I am not encouraging
you to make AI Love Island with fruit.
But what I think we all need to
recognize is that the modern consumer
doesn't go on social media to feel like
they're back in a classroom. They go on
social media to unplug, to disconnect.
Sure, sometimes we might want to learn
something, but we only want to learn
something if it's going to entertain us
and give us dopamine in the process.
Something that I try to do on this
podcast is make it as entertaining as
possible through my examples, through my
storytelling, through the tone and
charisma in which I'm speaking, so that
you can learn and be educated while also
getting some dopamine and some
entertainment as well. So, if that's
something you're into, if you want to
grow your small business on Instagram or
even on social media more broadly,
consider hitting that subscribe button
because every single week I put out
helpful tips, strategies, and ideas to
help you do exactly that. And before you
throw a fit about how poor our modern
attention span is, I would argue that
this isn't necessarily new. This is just
a phenomenon that's been exacerbated
because of social media. Think about
Robin Williams' character in the Dead
Poets Society. He was the most
captivating and most beloved teacher in
the school because he didn't just teach,
but he entertained in the process. Think
about Mr. Rogers and all of the life
lessons that he shared without ever
asking you to open a textbook. Think
about Neil deGrasse Tyson, one of the
most famous astrophysicist of our time,
who has made learning about super
complex, super out there, literally and
figuratively, topics approachable,
digestible, and entertaining. Think
about Bob Ross and how much you enjoy
learning about art from him and
listening to his storytelling compared
to reading the little plaques that are
at museums. Or Brené Brown, one of the
most famous and beloved therapist and
researchers in history because she's a
great storyteller. The list goes on and
on, and again, this isn't something that
is necessarily new. This is just
something that has become so much, I
guess you could call it worse, because
of social media. Because now we live in
a day and age where you don't have to
have an entire production crew and
professional camera and a studio and a
contract in order to tell stories and
get your messages out to the world. We
all have smartphones in our pockets that
can reach people all around the world,
and so the bar has simply been raised.
There's more competition, both in terms
of people who are creating and total
number of videos being posted. And so
the same old boring three tips for blah
blah blah, two ways to do X has just
become overdone, and it doesn't grab
attention like it used to. So number
one, we have more competition. Number
two, information is less scarce, not
only because of the increased
competition, but also because of the
proliferation of things like Google and
YouTube and ChatGPT. Number three, yes,
attention spans are shrinking. And
number four, way too many people are
creating boring ass content. I'm sorry,
I said it. But with that being said, I'm
going to share with you the six ways
that you can captivate your audience and
that you can educate them while
entertaining them in the process. And
like I mentioned, entertainment should
be the focus because according to Thomas
Finneran, who is the head of Instagram
for business, who I interviewed on this
podcast about a year ago, the number one
thing that small businesses, brands, and
content creators should be focused on is
entertainment, not education. Again,
it's fine to educate, it's fine to
teach, but if your focus isn't first and
foremost on entertaining your audience,
you're never going to have their
attention in the first place, and you're
going to be talking into the void. So,
let's get into the six A's. A number one
is analogies. Analogies, of course, are
short stories or examples of things that
might not directly relate to or
obviously relate to what it is that
you're trying to teach, but you can use
them to illustrate a point. So, I want
you to start using more analogies in
your content, and there's two real ways
that you can do that. One is by using
super popular or commonly understood
analogies that already exist. Like, if
I'm talking to someone about staying
consistent on Instagram, I might use the
analogy of the tortoise and the hare,
and how slow and steady wins the race.
Rather than posting a bunch of times
today and tomorrow because you're fired
up and have ideas, pace yourself so you
can spread out those posts and not burn
out. Or I might use the phrase the
snowball effect and talk about how one
positive action on Instagram can often
lead to the other. These super popular
analogies work because people can
connect to them. They know them. They're
stories from their childhood. They're
quick examples that they've been hearing
their entire life. And so, you're just
taking this message that people already
believe and understand and simply
connecting it back to your niche. The
other way that you can use analogies is
through your own personal storytelling.
In a lot of those famous educators who
entertain examples that I gave earlier,
those people are famous for their little
anecdotes, their little stories that
they're telling from their personal
life. Now, of course, you have to find a
balance because with short-form content,
be it YouTube Shorts, Reels, or TikToks,
you don't have that much time. So, you
can't really go down a rabbit hole and
tell a 5-minute long personal story from
your life. But, if you can tell a quick
1 to 3 sentence story about something
that's happened to you personally, it
will not only allow your audience to
understand and stay attentive to what
you're teaching them, but it will also
allow them to get to know you on a
little bit of a deeper level and
possibly relate to or resonate with you
stronger. The second A in the six A's is
acronyms, kind of like calling something
the six A's. Acronyms can be sticky.
They can be recognizable. They can be
shorthand ways of saying longer, more
complex things, and they do a little bit
of what I like to call mystifying the
mundane. Because if I told you that I
had six tips for making your content
more entertaining, that wouldn't be as
entertaining as if I said the six A's of
entertaining content. It's the same idea
with my STD strategy, the acronym that I
use to teach how to get your most viewed
story ever. I intentionally chose the
acronym STD because it's recognizable.
Every time I talk about it, I get a few
comments like, "STD? Do you know what
that means?" And I say, "Yeah, I do know
what it means." And I call it the STD
strategy because you're never going to
forget it. Which by the way, if as I'm
talking right now, you're like, "What
the F is the STD strategy?" I will link
up somewhere on the screen or down in
the description below the episode that I
did about how to get your most viewed
story ever on Instagram by using the STD
formula. But the awesome thing about
acronyms is that it only takes a few
extra seconds before you hit record to
come up with what they're going to be.
If you have a list of three tips, go
through the first letter in each of
those tips, or the first letter in the
keyword in each of those three tips.
Coming up with an acronym for what
you're teaching also gives you a little
bit more credibility because it sounds
official. It sounds like, "Hey, I took
the time to name this strategy. This
isn't just like a list of tips. This is
actually an officially named strategy."
This is very cool, and this makes me
look very professional and put together.
And so, the next time you're going to
record a reel, the next time you're
going to record a talking head video, or
even just write out some tips in your
caption, pause and ask yourself, or even
an AI brainstorming assistant, to help
you come up with some sort of acronym
that encapsulates these tips you're
about to share. Back in 2016, when I
started my first real online business, I
remember that my head was filled with so
many what ifs. What if no one buys this?
What if I'm an impostor? What if there's
no market? What if I can't sell? What if
what if what if? What if this is all
just a big waste of time and I'm just
banging my head against the wall? But
what I wish someone told me back then is
just like you can imagine all the
negative what ifs, there are just as
many if not more positive what ifs. What
if this works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way you can
tackle the important tasks from
inventory to payments to analytics all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f dot com forward slash
t r i b e.
>> The third A of making your educational
content more entertaining is to use
assertions. Basically, be bold, share
hot takes and unpopular opinions. One of
the really common mistakes that keeps a
lot of brands and business owners small,
it keeps their accounts from growing, is
they're scared to pick a side. The
thought is, well, if I'm vanilla, if I'm
kind of in the middle, if I kind of play
all sides here, then everyone will like
me. And number one, it's impossible for
everyone to like you, but what you end
up happening is watering down yourself,
watering down your perspective, your
beliefs, and your opinions to the point
that you don't really stand out. There's
nothing unique. There's nothing
polarizing about you. I'm not saying you
need to go to this extreme, but I want
you right now to think about who is the
person on the planet worldwide, not just
in the US, not just in the Western
Hemisphere, but like worldwide, what
human being probably gets the most
attention? That person is also arguably
the most polarizing or the most
assertive person on the planet right
now. And I think there's a pretty strong
correlation there. So, instead of saying
I think, say, "I know." Instead of
saying, "I just wanted to say," say,
"Here's what matters." Instead of
saying, "I think maybe," say, "Here's
what I found." Instead of saying, "I'm
not an expert, but" just get rid of
that. Instead of saying, "Today I wanted
to talk about" just get to what you
wanted to talk about. Instead of saying,
"In this post, I'm going to share" just
share it. Instead of saying, "Feel free
to comment below," say, "Comment the
fire emoji if you agree." Instead of
saying, "In my opinion," just say it.
It's your post. Of course it's your
opinion. And in general, cut out phrases
like, "I could be wrong, but take this
with a grain of salt, kind of, sort of,
I feel like, a little bit, just,
honestly, literally." Confidence can be
perceived through camera. And even
though following someone on social media
isn't as serious as following a general
into battle, the same idea kind of still
applies, which is that we want to follow
people who are confident, who are bold,
and who believe in what they're saying.
So, stand on business, as Gen Z may say.
The fourth A for making your educational
content more engaging and entertaining
is an attention grabber. Now, this is a
great time for me to pause and kind of
peel back the curtain for a second and
tell you that this is basically a hook,
right? I'm talking about hooks, the
beginning of your content. Not just the
words you're saying, but the audio in
the background, and most importantly,
the visual that is on the screen. The
beginning of your content is going to
make or break it. I don't care if you
are solving quantum physics or teaching
the most important lesson in the history
of the world, if the first 3 seconds of
your video sucks, people are not going
to stop and stick around for seconds
four onwards. But, I said I was going to
peel back the curtain for a second, and
what I meant by that is I'm talking
about a hook right now. But, hook starts
with an H, and H doesn't fit into the
six A's. So, I was like, well, I could
call this a hook, but that feels a
little bit silly. So, I went to Claude
and I asked it, "Hey, what are some
alternative ways that I could say the
word hook that starts with an A?" And
Claude was like, "What if you called it
an attention grabber?" And I was like,
"Duh, that makes so much sense. Why
didn't I think of that?" Why didn't
think of that? Because I've been doing
17 million other things for my business
today before recording this podcast.
But, attention grabber fits into the six
A's, and now you know that a hook is
absolutely a non-negotiable for making
your educational content more
entertaining. Now, I've done an entire
episode about hooks just a few weeks
ago, so I'll link that up in the show
notes below because if your hooks are
weak, then definitely check out that
episode. And the way to know if your
hooks are weak is if your attention
graphs look like this. If people are
dropping off right after your hook, or
even worse, they're dropping off as soon
as your video begins playing, then the
issue might not even be the body of your
content, it might be the hook itself.
The fifth A in making your educational
content more entertaining is
authenticity. Now, authenticity is one
of these buzzwords that everyone loves
to throw around nowadays, and so my tip
to help you be more authentic is to just
be yourself. Thanks, guys. Bye-bye.
Don't forget to sub- No. Okay. The way
that you're going to be more authentic
on social media is you're going to
reduce the time between idea and
execution. So, maybe during today's
episode, as you've been listening to me
yap for the last however many minutes,
you've had an idea for a post. I'm going
to give you permission right now, as
long as you promise you're going to come
back and finish the episode, to pause
this episode, whip out your phone, and
start recording. I think that far too
often we sit on ideas, we save them in
our drafts, we write them in our notes,
we have chat GPT edit them, then we film
them, then we edit and edit and edit and
edit and overthink and overanalyze and
overcomplicate, and we end up overdoing
our Reels. And every single moment that
you spend, every single action that you
take between the initial idea and the
actual moment of posting is another
moment or layer that is getting less
authentic. It's becoming less you, and
it's becoming literally a filtered
version of what was originally in your
head. And fortunately, one of the best
forms of content, one of the best
formats right now on Instagram and on
social media as a whole is what is
called yapping content. And yapping
content is as authentic as it gets. It's
in the car. It's handheld. It's with
your phone. It's while you're eating.
It's while you're getting ready. It's no
cuts, no edits. It's a little bit off
topic at times. It's a little bit going
down rabbit holes at times. Sometimes
it's talking a little bit faster than
you normally would in your Reel.
Sometimes it's talking a little bit more
casually than you normally would in your
Reel or that you normally would expect
to see in your Reels. Yapping content is
one of the most authentic, best formats
on Instagram right now. And the beauty
of it is it doesn't take very much time,
energy, or effort. There's almost no
editing required for yapping Reels. And
so, I want you to start trying out these
yapping Reels because they're very
authentic. And not only are they very
authentic and they save you a lot of
time, energy, and effort, but they also
allow your audience to connect with you
on a deeper level. Now, as you are
filming these yapping Reels, I want you
to embrace the mistakes. I want you to
leave in a few bloopers as long as we
can still understand what you're saying.
I want you to post it even if it's a
little bit off axis and not exactly
filmed perfectly straight up and down. I
want you to post it even if your hair is
a little bit messy or you have a stain
on your shirt or there's something in
the background that isn't exactly
perfectly in place. It's those
vulnerabilities, those mistakes, those
imperfections which make you human,
which differentiate you from AI, and
which ultimately will allow other people
to connect with you and your content on
a deeper level. The sixth and final A to
making your educational content more
entertaining is also what I would argue
is one of, if not the most important
A's, and that is advanced editing. Now,
when I say advanced editing, I don't
necessarily mean cinematography level
editing. I don't necessarily mean you
need to get a professional camera and
you need to hire a professional editor
and you need to start doing better color
grading and you need to improve your
editing. So, if that's not what I mean,
let me explain what I do mean by
advanced editing. What I do mean is stop
with the basic formats. The basic
formats, the most overdone formats, if
I'm to call out two of the most famous
problematic examples that I see every
day on Instagram, number one is what I
call B-roll reels. Now, these can be
very effective. I think in moderation,
these can be great. I think any kind of
content in moderation can be great. But,
B-roll reels when overdone might be the
most boring content on Instagram. And by
B-roll reels, I mean those super short
7-second reels with some random audio
slapped onto the back, trending audio,
whatever. You have a clickbait headline
or title in the text, and then after a
few seconds, it says, "Read the
caption." And then you write this
unnecessarily long caption because you
want to hack watch time and you want to
kind of trick your followers into
spending a long time reading your
unnecessarily long caption, which then
makes Instagram think, "Oh, yay, this
person had a really good post because
people spent 4 minutes with it." Stop
doing it. It's boring for your audience,
and in many cases, it's annoying for
your audience. And then the second
overdone format that just isn't working
is the example that I gave very, very
early on in today's episode, where it's
a talking head reel and it's you
speaking to the camera saying, "Three
tips for becoming a better rock climber.
Four ways that you can lose weight this
summer. Watch this before you fly to
Japan." It screams, "I'm about to
educate you." And it's kind of boring.
So, instead, here are five other formats
that you can use to educate while
entertaining your audience at the same
time. Number one is what I like to call
clones. And when I say clones, I don't
mean replacing yourself with an AI
version of yourself. I mean putting two
of you, or even three of you, on the
screen at the same time. You could have
one character play the role of the
beginner or the newbie, and the other
person play the role of the expert or
the advanced person. You could have one
person play the role of you five years
ago, and the other person play the role
of you now. You could have a
back-and-forth skit going on where they
kind of talk to each other. This style
of reel does require a little bit more
editing capabilities, but I wouldn't
call it a cinematic level of editing,
and it can be super engaging when done
correctly. Idea number two is ranking
videos. These are the kinds of reels
where you're choosing between this or
that. Or maybe there's a bracket and
you're going to have different things,
different items, different ideas,
different strategies that relate to your
niche compete to see who the ultimate
winner is. Maybe you're going to rank
different tools in your niche on a tier
chart. Or maybe you're going to rank
them as bad, good, and best. Again, this
is something that requires a little bit
more editing. It doesn't require a
professional degree in editing, but it
does take a little bit more time,
energy, and effort. The third idea is
green screens. Green screens might be
the easiest to do out of all five of
these ideas because Instagram stories,
the edits app, and most editing apps
nowadays, even a lot of camera apps
themselves, have built-in green screen
modes that are pretty good at removing
the background and putting you on top of
whatever it is that you want to talk
about. Whether that is a news article in
your niche, whether that's someone
else's post that you're going to be
reacting to, whether that's a technique
or a form or a competitor or whatever
that you're going to be responding to,
green screen videos can be a really
powerful and engaging form of content,
and I would argue that they're actually
pretty quick and easy to make. Idea
number four is what's called a split
screen or a top-down reel. Basically,
you have your reel split in half. The
bottom half is you talking directly to
the camera and then the top half is
either a screen recording if you're
showing something that's on like a phone
or a computer or maybe it's just like
illustrating a point visually through
animation or the top half is literally a
top-down shot of your desk as you're
showing us what you're doing, as you're
giving a tip, as you're moving maybe
pieces of paper around on a board to
illustrate an example. Essentially,
you're giving the audience two things to
consume at once but both things are kind
of talking to each other and they're
aiding in your education. And then my
fifth and final format that I would
recommend is whiteboard content. Go to
the store and purchase a whiteboard. Go
on Amazon and purchase a whiteboard.
They're like 10, 15, 20 bucks at most.
Grab yourself a dry erase marker and use
it to teach a point. Just like in school
when you were literally in a classroom,
your teacher didn't just talk to you wah
wah wah wah the entire day. They also
had a whiteboard and the best teachers
had a very dynamic whiteboard with art
and illustrations and writings and
diagrams and examples and it just made
education and made learning more fun. I
want you to take that same principle and
apply it to your reels on Instagram or
to whatever content you are creating.
Oh, and by the way, don't forget to
subscribe to this podcast because every
single week I put out helpful tips,
ideas, and strategies to help you grow
your business online. Thank you so much
for watching and as always, happy
networking.
>> Down with me.